# FuzzSlice

<p align="center">
    <a href="FuzzSlice_ICSE_2024.pdf">ICSE 2024 Paper PDF</a> •
    <a href="FuzzSlice_Technical_Documentation.pdf">FuzzSlice Technical Documentation</a> •
    <a href="https://archive.softwareheritage.org/browse/origin/directory/?origin_url=https://github.com/NobleMathews/FuzzSliceICSE">Archival Code Repository</a> •
    <a href="https://conf.researchr.org/details/icse-2024/icse-2024-research-track/39/FuzzSlice-Pruning-False-Positives-in-Static-Analysis-Warnings-through-Function-Level">ICSE Publication</a> •
    <a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/374114151_FuzzSlice_Pruning_False_Positives_in_Static_Analysis_Warnings_through_Function-Level_Fuzzing#fullTextFileContent">Preprint (ResearchGate)</a> 
</p>

## Purpose

This artifact is a full functional and reusable implementation of the approach and results presented in the paper “FuzzSlice: Pruning False Positives in Static Analysis Warnings through Function-Level Fuzzing. The goal of FuzzSlice is to automatically prune false positives in static analysis warnings. FuzzSlice achieves this by compiling code slices at the function level of each static analysis warning. It then proceeds to fuzz these compiled slices using libfuzzer. 

List of badges applied for:
- Artifact Available
    - [Archival Repository (Software Heritage)](https://archive.softwareheritage.org/browse/origin/directory/?origin_url=https://github.com/NobleMathews/FuzzSliceICSE)

- Artifact Reusable
    - Dockerfile part of Archival Repository
    - [Technical Documentation](FuzzSlice_Technical_Documentation.pdf)

## Provenance

The package includes the code for artifact and the benchmarks used in the study (Juliet, openssl, openssh-portable and tmux repositories). In this artifact, we have provided a docker file which will automatically setup various modules of our package (therefore docker is the only dependency). The docker can be easily setup on a Linux machine by directly applying the commands on the README of the replication package in order. Therefore, there is no particular technology skills assumed by the reviewer. The expected setup time for the docker is a few minutes. We have already provided sample static analysis warnings to demonstrate FuzzSlice. The expected output is the code coverage of fuzzing and whether a static analysis warning is classified as a possible true bug or false positive. We have also provided a user documentation guide, which will go over the various configuration options of FuzzSlice in detail and explain what they do and what to expect as output.

## Setup

These instructions will get you a copy of the tool up and running on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

- Docker

### Building docker image

1A. If you are downloading this repository from archival as a compressed file the git submodules will not be included. Please run the following command from the root directory of the project to download the submodules:
```bash
chmod +x ./init_submodules.sh
./init_submodules.sh
```

1B. Else if you have cloned this repo as a git repository, enter the root directory of the project. Recursively fetch the submodules by running:
```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

You can now build the environment required for the tool from using the Dockerfile included by running the following command:
```bash
docker build --platform linux/x86_64 -t sf . 
```

### Launching docker image with tool

The build command will both setup the environment and the 3 test repositories. To enter the container invoke:
```bash
docker run -it sf
```

## Usage

### Replicate Results

To replicate the results of the paper, you can run the following command from within in the docker container:

```bash
python3 main.py
```

**Note:** Running FuzzSlice on all repositories and static analysis warnings will take a long time and compute to run. We have setup `config.yaml` to run one of the smaller respoitories `tmux` on 3 warnings (the rest are commented out and can be enabled by editting `info_lib/tmux/targets.txt`).

### Running the tool on a custom repo

Now you can clone and setup target repo in testlib. After setting up the repo such that `make` can be run on it. 

The tool also expects a list of targets to work with, though all targets produced from a static analyzer can be used here we have kept this part manual so that the tool is only run on the kind of issues the user wants to check for (say buffer or memory issues). This file should be provided as `infolib/{test_library}/targets.txt`. Each target line should start with `{relative_path}:{line_no}`, this format is used by default in reports generated by tools like `rats` and `infer`. 

You can run the tool on the repo by updating the `config.yaml` file as per your requirements and running the `main.py` script.

The config keys currently supported are detailed below:

```yaml
test_library: Name of the directory within test_lib which has been setup for testing
fuzz_tool: Use 0 for libfuzzer and 1 for AFL [AFL support has currently been paused please retain this as 0]
timeout: The time for which Fuzzer runs
hard_timeout: Max timeout enforced for the entire fuzzing binaries function [For cases that don't terminate as expected]
max_length_fuzz_bytes: Max length of fuzz bytes
parallel_execution: Allow multiprocessing for issues
crash_limit: Maximum number of crashes to check
bug_timeline_targets_run: Performs git blame based tracing of issues [Retain as false for analysis]
log_report: Enable timing each part of the pipeline
```
